# Component Concepts

- A component is a reusable piece of code that encapsulates a specific functionality or UI element. Components can be simple, like a button, or complex, like a form with validation.
- `ng generate component <component-name>` or `ng g c <component-name>` command is used to create a new component in Angular. This command generates the necessary files and updates the module to include the new component.
  - This command creates a new folder with the component name and generates four files:
    - `user.component.ts`: The TypeScript file that contains the component class.
    - `user.component.html`: The HTML template for the component.
    - `user.component.css`: The CSS styles for the component.
    - `user.component.spec.ts`: The test file for the component.
- We can skip the creation of the test file by using the `--skip-tests` flag: `ng g c <component-name> --skip-tests`.
- Structure:

```js
@Component({
  selector: "app-example", // This is the HTML tag used to include the component in templates
  templateUrl: "./example.html", // The HTML file that defines the component's view
  styleUrls: ["./example.css"], // The CSS file(s) that style the component
  standalone: true, // Indicates that this component is standalone and can be used without being part of a module. Don't use this in Angular v.19 and later, as it is not needed.
})
export class ExampleComponent {
  // Component logic goes here
}
```

- In the past versions of Angular, the components was module-based and required a NgModule to be declared. However, with the introduction of standalone components, this is no longer necessary.
- If the component is simple, you can also use inline templates and styles:

```js
@Component({
  selector: "app-example",
  template: "<h1>Hello, World!</h1>",
  styles: ["h1 { color: red; }"],
})
export class ExampleComponent {}
```

## Class remembering

- On Angular, we can use classes to define components, services, and other entities. Classes allow us to encapsulate data and behavior in a single unit, making it easier to manage and reuse code.
- Example of a simple class:

```js
class Person {
  constructor(name, age) {
    this.name = name;
    this.age = age;
  }

  greet() {
    console.log("Hi, I am " + this.name);
  }
}

const person1 = new Person("Max", 35);
const person2 = new Person("Anna", 32);

const person1 = new Person("Max", 35);
const person2 = new Person("Anna", 32);
```

- But we won't instantiate these classes directly in our components. Instead, we will use Angular's dependency injection system to manage the creation and lifecycle of our classes.
