# Output Content

## @for

- We can use the `@for` directive to iterate over a collection and render content for each item in the collection.
- The syntax is similar to the `*ngFor` directive, but it is used in a different context, such as in a template reference variable or a structural directive.
- Example:

```html
<ul>
  @for (item of items; track item.id) {
  <li>{{ item.name }}</li>
  }
</ul>
```

- Earlier versions of Angular used `*ngFor` for this purpose, but the `@for` directive is a more recent addition that allows for more flexibility in certain scenarios.
- It is a structural directive that modifies the DOM structure based on the provided collection.
- It needs to be unlocked importing `import { NgFor } from '@angular/common';` in the component file.
- Example with `*ngFor`:

```html
<ul>
  <li *ngFor="let item of items; trackBy: item.id">{{ item.name }}</li>
</ul>
```

## @if

- The `@if` directive is used to conditionally render content based on a boolean expression.
- It is similar to the `*ngIf` directive but can be used in a different context, such as in a template reference variable or a structural directive.
- It is a structural directive that modifies the DOM structure based on the provided collection.
- It needs to be unlocked importing `import { NgIf } from '@angular/common';` in the component file.
- Example:

```html
<div>
  @if (condition) {
  <p>Condition is true!</p>
  } @else {
  <p>Condition is false!</p>
  }
</div>
```

- Earlier versions of Angular used `*ngIf` for this purpose, but the `@if` directive is a more recent addition that allows for more flexibility in certain scenarios.
- Example with `*ngIf`:

```html
<div>
  <p *ngIf="condition; else elseBlock">Condition is true!</p>
  <ng-template #elseBlock>
    <p>Condition is false!</p>
  </ng-template>
</div>
```
